Update the length customization sections (#66)
oetiker/lshort: src/custom.tex

Text in 12 DTP points.
\end{example}
\endgroup

\subsection{Horizontal Space}\label{sec:hspace}

\LaTeX{} determines the spaces between words and sentences automatically.
However, similarly to commands described in \autoref{sec:math_spacing}, there are
ways to influence the spaces in normal text. For example, to add horizontal
space, you can use:\index{horizontal!space}
\begin{lscommand}
  \csi{hspace}[length: m]
\end{lscommand}

> The \carg{length} argument can be specified using units described in previous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \carg{length} argument can be specified using the units described in previous
```

section in the usual way. You can use decimal and even negative numbers as
values.
\begin{example}
This\hspace{1.5cm}is a space
of \qty{1.5}{\cm}. A bit too
cramped\hspace{-5pt}here.
\end{example}
The space added that way will disappear if it lands on the end of a line,

> similarly to an interword spacing. If you want to retain it there use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
similarly to an interword spacing. If you want to retain the extra space, use the
```

\linebreak not missing.
\end{example}

So far all the lengths we have seen have been \emph{rigid}\index{rigid
  length}\index{length!rigid}, that is the length is exactly as specified. But
you probably noticed that the spaces between words are not rigid---they can
stretch and shrink, so that \TeX{} can make the right margin equal. Lengths
that can do that are called \emph{rubber} lengths\index{rubber
  length}\index{length!rubber}.

Such lengths can be specified using a special \ltx{plus} and \ltx{minus}
syntax. For example to specify that a space can stretch if a need arises you
can specify it by writing \ltx{plus} followed by the maximum allowed stretch.
\begin{example}
This small\hspace{1em plus 2cm}%
space may grow if a need arises.

Here\hspace{1em plus 2cm}the
need\linebreak very much arises.
\end{example}
The additional space can extend even beyond the specified maximum, but in such
cases \LaTeX{} will print a warning.

The shrinking can be specified in a similar way using the \ltx{minus} syntax.
\begin{example}
This\hspace{1em minus 2em}%
space may disappear if it gets
too crampy.
\end{example}

When there are multiple rubber spaces in text \TeX{} calculates the amount of

> stretch proportionally to the specified maximum. Thus if \TeX{} needs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
'stretch` proportionally to the specified maximum. Thus if \TeX{} needs
```

want to flush the rest of the line right.
\begin{example}
Peter Pan\hfill Neverland

Dear Wendy, \ldots
\end{example}

\subsection{Vertical Space}

You have already seen that vertical space between lines can be inserted using
\csi{\bs} command. However, it does not work well when used for spacing between
paragraphs---the reason being that it always starts a new line, so if it's used
at the end of paragraph, it will end in an empty line.
\begin{example}
Paragraph.\\

There's an empty line above.
\end{example}
\LaTeX{} has a dedicated command for setting the space between paragraphs, the
\begin{lscommand}
  \csi{vspace}[length: m]
\end{lscommand}
command. It works similarly to the \cs{hspace} command, however when used
inside a line it will only produce the space after the line is ended.
\begin{example}
Some\vspace{1em} text that
spans multiple lines.
\end{example}
Since it does not produce empty lines when used, it is perfect for inserting a
space between paragraphs. Similarly to the \cs{hspace} command, the space will
be discarded if it lands at the end of a page---use the starred version if this
is not desirable.

> The rubber lengths, \csi{stretch} and \csi{vfill} work just as you would expect
> them when it comes to vertical space. However, since manual vertical spacing is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rubber lengths, \csi{stretch} and \csi{vfill} work for vertical space too. However, since manual vertical spacing is
```

The word Major has width of \the\mywidth, height of
\the\myheight{} and depth of \the\mydepth.
\end{example}

These commands are especially useful when creating your own environments
requiring complicated alignment or spacing. An example of using them is
presented in \autoref{lst:fun_with_lengths}.

\begin{listing}
  \begin{example}[vertical_mode, examplewidth=0.85\linewidth]
\newlength{\vardescindent}
\NewDocumentEnvironment{vardesc}{m}{%
  \settowidth{\vardescindent}{#1:\ }%
  \RenewDocumentCommand{\item}{so}{%
    \IfBooleanTF{##1}{#1: }{\\\hspace*{\vardescindent}}%
    \IfValueT{##2}{##2 ---}%
  }%
  \ignorespaces
}{}

\[  a^2+b^2=c^2 \]
\begin{vardesc}{Where}
  \item*[\(a\), \(b\)] are adjacent to the right angle
    of a right-angled triangle.
  \item[\(c\)] is the hypotenuse of the triangle and
    feels lonely.
  \item[\(d\)] finally does not show up here at all.
    Isn't that puzzling?
\end{vardesc}
\end{example}
  \caption{An example of using \cs{settowidth} to align all of the
    definitions to a preceding phrase.}\label{lst:fun_with_lengths}
\end{listing}

As you will see \LaTeX{} uses length variables for many things. When

> typesetting document you can use some of them when setting lengths to make them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
typesetting a document you can use some of them when setting lengths to make them
```

    \cargv{openright, openany}               & Makes chapters begin
    either only on right hand pages or on the next page available. This does
    not work with the \cli{article} class, as it does not know about
    chapters. The \cli{report} class by default starts chapters on
    the next page available and the \cli{book} class starts them on
    right hand pages.                                                        \\
    \bottomrule
  \end{tabular}
\end{table}

For example, if an input file for a \LaTeX{} document starts with the line
\begin{code}
\csi{documentclass}[{11pt, twoside, a4paper}: vo, article: vm]
\end{code}
then it instructs \LaTeX{} to typeset the document as an article with a base
font size of eleven points, and to produce a layout suitable for double sided
printing\footnote{Note that this only influences the appearance of the document
  to be adequate for double sided printing---you still have to pass proper
  instructions to your printer to print it on both sides.} on A4 paper.

If you do not like the appearance of the standard \LaTeX{} classes, the easiest
way to change it is to use some alternatives. For example, the

> \pai*{koma-script} provides alternatives that produce documents with European

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\pai*{koma-script} package provides alternatives that produce documents with European
```

    the author. A description of how to do this is in
    \autoref{sec:fancy}.                                                  \\
    \bottomrule
  \end{tabular}
\end{table}

It is possible to change the page style of the current page with the command
\begin{lscommand}
  \csi{thispagestyle}[style: m]
\end{lscommand}

You may also control the style of the displayed page numbers. To change it use
the
\begin{lscommand}
  \csi{pagenumbering}[style: m]
\end{lscommand}
command, where \carg{style} is one of the styles presented in
\autoref{tb:numberings}.

\begin{table}
  \caption{Possible argument of the \csi{pagenumbering}
    command.}\label{tb:numberings}
  \begin{tabular}{@{}ll@{}}
    \toprule
    Style          & Description                                   \\
    \midrule
    \cargv{arabic} & Arabic numerals (1, 2, 3, \ldots)             \\
    \cargv{roman}  & Lowercase Roman numerals (i, ii, iii, \ldots) \\
    \cargv{Roman}  & Uppercase Roman numerals (I, II, III, \ldots) \\
    \cargv{alph}   & Lowercase Latin letters (a, b, c, \ldots)     \\
    \cargv{Alph}   & Uppercase Latin letters (A, B, C, \ldots)     \\
    \bottomrule
  \end{tabular}
\end{table}

> If these options are not enough for you, you will description how to create
> your own headers and footers in \autoref{sec:fancy} on \autopageref{sec:fancy}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If would like more control over the apparance of your headers and footers, refere to \autoref{sec:fancy} on \autopageref{sec:fancy}.
```

printed book and count the number of characters on a standard text line. You
will find that most lines contain between 45 and 80 characters. Now do the same
on your \LaTeX{} page. You will find that the same relationship holds.
Empirical studies suggest that averaging around 66 characters per line creates
the optimal reading experience for readers. If you want to save space when
printing your document consider using \cargv{twocolumn} option or smaller page
sizes.

With that warning in place let us proceed to the proper introduction of
\pai*{geometry} package that allows you to easily customize the page dimensions
of your document. It is worth noting that simply including the package in your
preamble will result in considerably narrower margins, (the very thing we
warned you to avoid) so only use the package if you intend to set them
manually or use the \cargv{pass} option that disables most of the package
functions but retains the paper size adjustments.

As we have mentioned in \autoref{options}, simply setting \cargv{a5paper} (or
similar) option will only adjust margins of the document without changing the

> paper dimensions themselves. The simplest way to fix that is to include the
> \pai{geometry} package with your preamble. It will read the page size option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
paper dimensions themselves. The simplest way to fix that is to add the
\pai{geometry} package to your preamble. It will read the page size option
```

\cargv{F} in their \carg{places} argument, unless otherwise specified.
\begin{example}[standalone, paperheight=3.5cm]
\geometry{includefoot, includehead, headsep=.5em, footskip=1em} %!hide
\sloppy %!hide
\usepackage{csquotes} %!hide
\usepackage{fancyhdr}%!hide
\pagestyle{fancy}%!hide

\fancyhead[L]{A}
\fancyfoot[R]{B}

\begin{document}%!hide
\noindent %!hide
\enquote{Yields a falsehood when
appended to its own quotation}
yields a falsehood when appended
to its own quotation.
\end{document}%!hide
\end{example}

The lines drawn by the \pai{fancyhdr} package may also be customised. To change
%$$ Inserted comma after 'thickness'.
their thickness, redefine the
\begin{lscommand}
  \csi{headrulewidth} \\
  \csi{footrulewidth}
\end{lscommand}
macros to the desired size.
\begin{example}[standalone, paperheight=3cm, paperwidth=3cm]
\geometry{includefoot, includehead, headsep=.5em, footskip=1em} %!hide
\sloppy %!hide
\usepackage{fancyhdr} %!hide
\pagestyle{fancy} %!hide
\RenewDocumentCommand{\headrulewidth}{}{.2cm}
\RenewDocumentCommand{\footrulewidth}{}{.5cm}

\begin{document}%!hide
\noindent %!hide
Do not read this sentence.
\end{document}%!hide
\end{example}

> %$$ Inserted comma after 'default'.
> By default, headers and footers are as long as the text on the page. If you want
> %$$ Changed 'extend\slash{}shorten' to 'extend or shorten'.
> %$$ Added comma after 'them'.
> to extend\slash{}shorten them, use the
> \begin{lscommand}
>   \csi{fancyhfoffset}[places: o, offset: m]
> \end{lscommand}
> %$$ Added comma after \csi{fancyhf}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, headers and footers are as long as the text on the page. If you want
to extend or shorten them, use the
\begin{lscommand}
  \csi{fancyhfoffset}[places: o, offset: m]
\end{lscommand}
Added comma after \csi{fancyhf}.
```
